On July 24, 1958, I got baptized, and on November 5, 1958, I already got arrested for refusal to do military service.
The second time I was convicted was again for refusal to do military service.
The next court trial took place in 1963.
I got seven years and five years exiled.
They added three years that I did not serve for refusal to go to the army.
I was taken to Mordovia.
This was the first camp where all believers were put amongst them 360 of Jehovah's Witnesses.
The detentions were very strict, because around this time the governments and party politics changed.
They decided that prisoners must suffer hunger.
The food Russians were cut.
This was very difficult, very difficult I must say.
And the winters can be cold.
Even in March, he could get his cold as 35 degrees Celsius, minus 35.
Spiritual things were for all of us, the brothers in this camp, top priority.
First of all, all 360 people were divided into four congregations, and every congregation was divided into groups.
Every congregation had responsible brothers as overseers, and so had every group.
We conducted the study not just once a week, we conducted the study every day, every day.
And brothers took this very seriously. We had no time for any worldly thoughts.
Every Saturday and Sunday we had a very powerful choir, men's voices.
When we were singing, we stationed guards near the oversight house where supervisors were on duty.
And if one of them came out, it was signalled from one brother to the next, so that if he or they came closer, we would already be gone.
But the most interesting thing was, we were singing in the zone, we were the prisoners.
But our listeners were outside, they were sitting up in the trees.
The children of the supervisors, officers and guards, and they were listening to our choir.
All together during that time, I was in seven prison camps.
I spent about 13 years there, and another five years in exile in Siberia.
But when I was convicted the last time, the head of the interrogation department came into my cell and said,
Victor, when you finish all your prison terms, you will have nothing at all, no family, no children.
I smiled at him and asked, how do you know this citizen lieutenant colonel?
I don't know it either, but I do trust in Jehovah.
Today I do have a family, and do have my wife, my children.
We continue to serve Jehovah, and my greatest joy is when my six-year-old granddaughter stands next to me in the Kingdom Hall and sings songs that praise Jehovah.
Well, to make it simple, I would put it this way.
Preserve your love for Jehovah and for your brothers.
Joy in Jehovah's service. Never lose it.
We will not fear anything bad, neither cold nor hunger, nothing.